# iORI-Epi: A machine learning-based method for predicting human replication origin sites from epigenomics and chromatin interaction data


**Overview**

We devised a computational approach to predict replication origin sites (ORIs) using the  epigenomic marks, DNA motifs, and chromatin loops.

**Systems Requirements**

The scripts were written in R and Python language. 

To run the scripts, you need several R packages. To install the packages:
`install.packages(c("pROC","glmnet","ranger","Matrix","ROCR"))` \
`source("https://bioconductor.org/biocLite.R")` \
`biocLite("BSgenome.Hsapiens.UCSC.hg19")` \
`biocLite("BSgenome.Hsapiens.UCSC.hg19.masked")` \
`biocLite("JASPAR2018")` \
`biocLite("TFBSTools")` \


**Usage**

There are three main folders: 
- The folder "data" contains ORI data from human myeloid erythroleukemia K562 cell and breast cancer MCF-7 cell. 
1. Subfolder "ORI" contains K562 ORI data(train dataset, validation dataset, enhancer dataset, and promoter dataset) and MCF-7 data(train dataset with positive and negatuve samples).
2. Subfolder "EpiBed" contains K562 83 Chip-seq data and MCF-7 13 Chip-seq data, which were used to extracted epigenomic marks features.
3. Subfolder "EpiBed" contains the ChIA-PET data of K562 and MCF-7, which were used to extracted chromatin interaction features.

- The folder "script" contains following scripts: (When using these scripts, you need to write the right file path)
1. "epigenomic.R" is uesed to extracte epigenomic marks features and predict ORI by Random Forest (RF) classifier.
2. "motif.R" is used to extracte DNA motifs features and predict ORI by RF.
3. "ChIA-PET.py" is used to extracte chromatin interaction features and predict ORI by RF.
4. "PlusCsv.py" is used to combine three feature files (epigenomic marks features, DNA motifs features, and chromatin interaction features).
6. "RunRF.R" is used to run RF, which is need to input feature file with .csv format.

- The folder "variable importance" contains 622-dimensions variable importance ('622-VI.txt'). The sorted features is can be generated by ./script/VIscoretoCSV.py. That means we can obtained the top 60-dimension features file. Finally, input features file to ./script/RunRF.R, the result can be yeild.

**References**
- iORI-Epi: A machine learning-based method for predicting human replication origin sites from epigenomics and chromatin interaction data.


**Contact**:
fydao@std.uestc.edu.cn
